{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\qj

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Vodou Funeral; Port au Prince, Haiti\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri380\qj

\b0\fs26 \cf0 \
I rang my driver, Sergo, on my first day in Haiti and asked him if he was still available and keen to help me.  He said he\'92d be happy to, \'93but I can\'92t today.  My friend was killed last night and I have to go to the police station to give a character statement.\'94\
\
Sergo\'92s friend, Abeille, was on the roof of his house late that night fixing his TV aerial when his neighbour and adversary, thought he was a burglar.  The neighbour, called out to ask who it was. \'93It\'92s only me, Abeille.\'94 Bang! The gun was fired and Abeille was shot square between the eyes.\
\
Further to speculation of the political difference between the two men, there is also the undeniable reality that in order to shoot someone between the eyes one needs to see the face. This would constitute Abeille's death as a murder.\
\
Abeille\'92s killer was released from prison on bail for $20,000.\
\
\
Abeille's friends and family wanted justice, so his funeral would be the first public Vodou funeral of its kind.  Contrary to rural areas the religion of Vodou (Haitian spelling) in Port au Prince, has always been practiced behind closed doors due to the intense pressure from strong Christian missionary bodies and governmental influences.\
\
This tragedy is a strong representation of a people not only stricken by this particular loss, but by violence on a daily basis in a way we in the West can hardly imagine.\
}