{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14300\viewh11000\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx9260\pardeftab720\ri-240\qj

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 The Bajau People - The Sea Gypsies of the Celebes Sea
\b0\fs26 \
\pard\tx9260\pardeftab720\ri-80\qj

\fs24 \cf0 \
Bajau people are often known as the 'sea gypsies' of southeast Asia.  They live on wooden houseboats or stilt houses mostly in the Celebes sea between the Philippines, Malaysia and Indonesia.  They live off subsistence fishing and underwater hunting and gathering.  I first learned about the Bajau in 2010 during a trip to Mabul Island, off the south-eastern coast of Sabah, Malaysia.\
\
Some frequent the privately owned Mabul Island to trade any sea bounty that\'92s excess to their needs for survival, others live on the island illegally. Their connection to the sea runs deep as both an essential provider and a cruel master.  The Bajau are known for free diving up to 10 minutes, 30 meters below the surface to\'a0secure their catch.\
\
Most who are stateless have very limited access to health and education\'a0services.  During low tide children are sent to fossick for sea urchins and other types of food. This is a\'a0perilous pursuit from various threats\'a0(such as toad fish) that are extremely poisonous and lurk well disguised on the sea bed. Should a\'a0Bajau\'a0person be injured by a sea creature like this, there is no medical assistance available to them.\
\
I was presented with this very example of a middle age woman who had stepped on a toad fish in her search for food. Her food had become gangrenous and the wound was the size of a grapefruit and the smell of rotting flesh filled the hut she was living in. The mourning of friends and family sat around praying and weeping for a seemingly\'a0surmountable\'a0affliction\'a0that was\'a0destined to take her life. It\'a0was not a picture I\'a0felt I could respectfully\'a0take.\
}