{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1138\cocoasubrtf510
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset128 MS-Gothic;\f2\froman\fcharset0 TimesNewRomanPSMT;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww10800\viewh8400\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\qj

\f0\b\fs28 \cf0 Derby Girls\
\'a0\'a0
\i\b0\fs26 \
Derby Girls
\i0  is an expos\'e9 of the raw expression found in this full-contact team sport. The fearless participants and avid followers \'91pack\'92 an attitude that\'92s clearly not left at the door! This series provides an insight into a niche sport and a melting pot of eclectic fringe cultures, such as rockabilly, psychobilly and punk. \
\'a0\
The game is a fiercely fought competition of physical ability and visual splendour. The objective is to win with maximum impact whilst heeding the unspoken precedent of cheeky exuberance. Roller derby is a tremendously empowering and exciting sport for women, filled with an eccentricity and playfulness that entertains on and off the rink. This spectacle is a documentary photographer's playground. The images attempt to capture the energetic passion of the players and the unpredictability of the game, whilst offering a glimpse into the world of gutsy gals and the way they play.\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl320\qj
\cf0 \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl320\qj

\b \cf0 The Derby Girls series was a finalist in the CCP Documentary Photography Awards and exhibited:
\f1\b0 \uc0\u8232 
\f0\fs24 Centre for Contemporary Photography \
Fitzroy, Melbourne, Victoria. Nov 2011. \
\pard\pardeftab720\ri0\sl440\qj
\cf0 Australia Wide Tour. January 2012- November 2013.
\f2\fs22 \
}